Yellowstone National Park is in the United States of America. It became the first National Park in 1872. There are geysers and hot springs at Yellowstone. There are also many animals like elk, bison, sheep, grizzly bears, black bears, moose, coyotes, and more at Yellowstone. More than 3 million people visit Yellowstone each year. During the winter, visitors can ski, go snowmobiling or join tours there. Visitors can see steam and water from the geysers. During other seasons, visitors can go horse-riding, boating, fishing or take nature trails and tours. Most visitors want to see Old Faithful, a very predictable geyser at Yellowstone. Visitors can check a schedule to see the precise time that Old Faithful is going to erupt. There are many other geysers and bubbling springs in the area. Great Fountain Geyser erupts every 11 hours up to a height of 67 metres. Excelsior Geyser produces 4,000 gallons of boiling water each minute! Boiling water is 100 degrees Celsius, or 212 degrees Fahrenheit – that's very hot! People also like to see the Grand Prismatic Spring. It is the largest hot spring in the park. It has many beautiful colors, which are caused by bacteria in the water. These are forms of life that have only one cell. Different bacteria live in different water temperatures. Visiting Yellowstone National Park can be a week–long vacation or more. It is beautiful, and there are activities for everyone.
"Mom, the lobster is delicious," I said. "Save some for your brother. He should be coming home soon. It's already  half past seven," said my mother. "Yes, Sebastian, listen to your mother. Lobsters are a rare treat for our family. My boss has been very kind in giving us this treat," added my father. What my father said was very true. Life was hard for us. My father worked as a foreman at a construction site. He was paid only when he went to work. He had to work under the hot sun or in heavy rain when the weather was bad. The doorbell rang. I opened the door and my younger brother, Tim, charged in excitedly. In his hands was a letter which he waved wildly. He looked over the moon. "Mom, Dad, come see what I've to show you!" shouted Tim. We huddled around him and waited anxiously for what seemed to be good news. "I've got a scholarship to study in St Peter's college. The two-year tuition fees are fully paid for, plus they are giving me $3000 for books and stationery," rattled Tim in one breath. We were overjoyed. My mother was so happy, tears rolled down her cheeks. Even my father, who looked stern most of the time, hugged Tim. We were so proud of my brother.
Fossils of plants and ancient dinosaurs found in Antarctica show the continent once had a warm climate. Trees and plants grew there before the land drifted towards the frozen south pole. Now, Antarctica is the world's windiest and coldest region, with ice 5 kilometres thick in parts. Some recorded wind speeds are over 300km/h, stronger than most cyclones. Thousands of large seals and penguins feed in the oceans around Antarctica and there is no land life on the continent. We can see only tiny insects and not one green tree. Only scientists and other workers live in this huge area of land. Each year, thousands of tourists visit the warmer parts in planes or ships. We hope they do not spoil this beautiful part of the world.
The chiming of the old grandfather clock echoed through the quiet house. Shirley began to stir from her sleep as the sixth and last chime of the clock rang in her ears. She quickly changed into her weekend clothes before going downstairs for something to eat. Shirley was hungry and it did not take her long to devour a plate of cereal and three pieces of toast, followed by a cup of warm milk. It was time to check the stable to see if old Sputnik had given birth to a new foal. Five years ago, Sputnik had been a champion racehorse, winning seven races from only a dozen starts before a leg injury forced her to retire from the racetrack. As Shirley made her way from the house to the sheds, she played a game of hopscotch with the puddles of rainwater that were in her path. Soon, she entered the stables where Sputnik was locked away. There, on a bed of hay, lay a lovely baby filly, just two hours old. Above her and standing proudly on guard was the grey Sputnik. Shirley jumped for joy before spinning around and charging back to the house to tell the others the good news. She wiped her feet carefully on the doormat before going down the hallway that led to the kitchen. Mother looked up from the kitchen table at Shirley's happy face. "Well, tell us, Shirley, is it a filly or a colt?" she asked. "It's a filly, the same colour as her mum," replied an excited Shirley. Before long, Shirley was off to the study room where all her homework was done. Taking her diary from the bookshelf, she wrote 'Born on the tenth day of the tenth month, a little filly with wobbly legs – I think I'll call her 'Legs Go'.
In many countries, cars on the roads cause problems for people. Thousands of pedestrians and drivers are killed in road accidents each year. Car exhausts also pour out dangerous fumes, containing lead into the air we breathe. Lead is used in petrol to prevent the wearing away of parts inside the engine. New cars use unleaded petrol. This is generally safe for people to use. However, some doctors believe a chemical called benzene can be dangerous to our health. It is produced when unleaded petrol is used in cars that are not suitable for unleaded fuel. At certain times of the day, traffic jams are a problem on our main roads and governments have to think of ways to prevent them. One way is to ask drivers to leave their cars at home and use public transport such as buses and trains. The government can consider rewarding these people for helping to reduce the number of cars on the roads. It has been proven effective for most countries.
Dear Cousin Mary, How are you? My father and I were just discussing about earthquakes for my school project last week. I found out from the Internet that the largest earthquake happened in Chile in May 1960. Also, an earthquake that happened in 1556 in China killed the most number of people. Then last night, I heard about the earthquake in Lombok, Indonesia on the news. I read on the newspaper that many buildings gave way and thousands lost their homes. Luckily, there is no tsunami this time. I was also relieved to hear that the area you lived in only experienced some slight tremors. I got more interested and concerned, so I continued searching on the Internet. I realised some earthquakes are so small that machines cannot pick up on them, thus, we cannot feel them too. I also found out that Indonesia sits on the Pacific "Ring of Fire" where many earthquakes and volcanic eruptions occur. Some earthquakes happened deep in the sea and are not noticed by people on land. Most earthquakes happen 80 kilometres or less below the Earth's surface. However, some are too far below the surface to be felt. With new and better technology, I expect scientists to invent a machine to predict earthquakes one day to help everyone. I hope you and your family in Indonesia will stay safe and well. Take care and write soon! Cheers, Cousin Eric
6 April 2018 Dear Diary, Last week, our school told us to prepare three presents for the 'Friendship Day' celebrations. These were to be given to our good friends. I was very happy and expected many gifts from my friends as I was very friendly and popular in my class. Today, when all the presents were distributed among my classmates, I received ten presents! I was overjoyed. Just as I was going to unwrap my presents, I noticed a classmate who was empty-handed. It was Julian, the boy who had joined our school two weeks ago. He sat silently in a corner of the classroom, looking out of the window miserably. I realised that no one had remembered to give him a gift. Fortunately, my mother had advised me to prepare an extra present. I walked to Julian and gave it to him. At first, he looked surprised, but soon a wide grin slowly spread across his face. He thanked me gratefully. Then he apologised as he had not prepared a gift for anyone. I told him that he could give me the gift of his time by playing with me during recess. By the end of the day, I had made a new friend. I'm glad that I had heeded my mother's advice. 
Simba, the Lion King, fought with an elephant and was injured. His faithful follower, Fox, was always beside him. Simba had always given the leftovers of his hunt to Fox. Since Simba was unable to hunt, Fox had to remain hungry. Fox asked Simba to do something about it. Simba said, "Bring me a suitable animal which I can hunt even in my feeble state." Fox set out for the nearby village where he met a donkey. "Hello friend, you are looking skinny," said Fox. "Are you not well?" "Yes, friend," replied the donkey, "my master gives me little food." "Come with me! Our king is very kind and will feed you," Fox said. Happily, the donkey followed Fox with dreams of green grass. When Simba saw the donkey coming, he could not control himself and tried to jump upon the donkey. Unluckily, he missed the donkey and it ran away. They had lost a prey. Simba asked Fox not to give up, but to try again. Fox went to a pond and found the donkey there. "Friend, why did you run away? The lion king was so happy to see you that he jumped up to welcome you." The donkey was fooled again and accompanied Fox to see the lion in his cave. This time Simba was very careful and killed the foolish donkey immediately.
Sam and Tom were twins. Though they looked similar, they differed in personality. While Sam was generous and selfless, Tom was greedy and selfish! As the twins grew up, their father wanted to share his fortune equally between them. However, Tom disagreed and argued that whoever proved to be more intelligent and strong should get a bigger share of the wealth. Their father decided to hold a competition. He asked the twins to walk for as long as they could, and return home before sunset. The wealth would be divided in proportion to the distance covered. As a rule of the competition, they were not permitted to carry a watch to keep track of the time. On the day of competition, Sam walked slowly and steadily, while Tom sprinted as he wanted to win the race. Sam planned to walk as far as possible till noon and start for home thereafter, as it would take the same amount of time to walk back home. However, Tom did not attempt to return home even after noon. Tom walked twice as long as Sam so as to get more wealth. He hurried back only when the sun turned orange. Slowly, darkness engulfed his path and he had to drag his feet home. He had lost the race because of his greed.
Whales are unique creatures. Although they look like fish and live in the sea, unlike fish, they are warm-blooded mammals. They breathe through their lungs. They sense their surrounding environment through echolocation like dolphins and bats. Whales have flippers which they use to guide themselves while swimming. They propel themselves along with the help of their two-finned tails. They also use their flippers to slap hard against the water before lunging itself out of the water to warn others of approaching threat. Whales can dive to great depths, holding their breaths for a long period of time. They breathe in air through their blowholes instead of their mouths when they surface, and their breaths form a cloudy 'spout'. Among the two kinds of whales, the toothed whales have teeth and they feed on all kinds of fish, plankton and crustaceans. Toothed whales include the sperm whale. Meanwhile the wholebone or better known as baleen whales have a huge sieve-like structure hanging from the roof of their mouths instead of teeth. This filters the tiny plants and animals from the water passing through the whale's mouth. Wholebone whales include the biggest mammal – the blue whale. Many whales migrate by swimming long distances from their cold-water feeding grounds to warm-water breeding grounds every year. Unlike toothed whales, the baleen whale can travel alone on their annual migrations.
Two friends, Vijay and Raju, were on a journey through a forest. As they entered the deeper part of the forest, they heard strange noises and began to feel nervous. They promised each other that they would stick together and help each other along the way. Moments later, there was a rustling in the bushes. Raju froze in his tracks, pointing to the source of the sound. A large bear appeared clumsily from behind a large bush, growling menacingly. Both men were gripped with fear. Vijay started looking for an escape route, but could find none. Raju quickly climbed up a nearby tall tree without looking back. Unfortunately, his friend did not know how to climb trees. Vijay suddenly thought of an idea to save himself. He threw himself on the ground and closed his eyes. When the bear came towards him, he held his breath and lay still. It sniffed around his ear and head. Thinking that the man was dead, the bear soon lost interest and left. When the bear was out of sight, Raju climbed down the tree and asked, "What did the bear whisper in your ear?" Vijay replied crossly, "It warned me to stay away from people who abandon their friends in times of danger." 
Robin was a greedy boy who loved eating fried food. One day, while he was walking home from school, he saw a hawker selling his favourite chicken nuggets at the 'Pasar Malam' (Night Market). He did not notice that there were many houseflies flying around the chicken nuggets as the hawker packed three sticks into a plastic bag for him. Robin munched on them hurriedly while walking home leisurely. At home, Robin suddenly felt a sharp pain in his abdomen. Clutching his stomach, he bent over and vomited. Though he could bear with the pain and nausea, it was the dizziness that made standing up a problem. Although the nearest hospital was a ten minutes' walk, his mother had to call for a taxi to take them there. At the hospital, the doctor sent Robin for a blood test. The doctor then said that Robin had eaten contaminated food and was suffering from food poisoning. After going through several other tests that took almost the whole day, Robin was told he had to stay in the ward for the next seven days. After Robin had recovered, he promised his mother that he would be careful when buying food from any stall in the future – taste should come second. Robin's mother smiled as she knew that her son had learnt a valuable lesson. 
Richard and Julian, who shared a room, woke up at about the same moment, and stared out of the nearby window. "It's a lovely day. Hurray!" cried Julian, leaping out of bed. Julian and Richard ran in and shook Anne, who was sleeping in the next room. "Wake up! It's Tuesday! And the sun's shining," they exclaimed. Anne woke up with a jump and shouted joyfully, "Oh isn't it an exciting feeling to go away for a holiday!" The family started their journey after breakfast. Before moving off, the luggage of different shapes and sizes were put in the car boot and secured properly. Mother sat in front with Daddy, while the three children sat behind with their feet on two extra suitcases. Along the crowded London roads, they went, slowly at first, and then, as they left the town behind, more quickly. Soon they were right into the open country, and the car sped along fast. Aunt Fanny had been looking out for the car. She came running out the old wooden house as soon as she saw it draw up outside. The children adored their Aunt Fanny immediately. "Where's Georgina?" asked Anne, looking round for her cousin, whom they had only heard about so far. "Oh, the naughty girl! I told her to wait in the garden for you," said Aunt Fanny. "I must tell you, children, you may find George a bit difficult at first – she's always been on her own, you know. She may not like you being here in the beginning. But you mustn't take any notice of that – she'll need some encouragement and will be all right in a short while. I am very glad for George's sake that all of you were able to come. She really needs more of you sweet young things to make her smile," added Aunt Fanny smiling brightly.
It is a good thing sloths do not have to go to school. They would have never made it on time. These tree-dwellers sleep up to 20 hours a day! Even when they are awake, they barely move at all. In fact, they are so incredibly sluggish, that algae actually grows on their fur. Sloths live in the tropical forests of Central and South America. With their long arms and shaggy fur, they resemble monkeys. However, they are actually related to armadillos and anteaters. They can be 600 to 800 centimetres long and depending on their species, weigh from 3.6 to 7.7 kilogram. There are two species of sloths, identified by the number of claws they have – two or three on their front feet. Although both species are quite similar in appearance, with roundish heads, sad-looking eyes, tiny ears and stubby tails, the two-toed sloths are generally bigger. They also spend more time hanging upside-down on trees compared to their three-toed cousins, who will often sit upright in the fork of a tree branch. The three-toed sloths have facial colouring that makes them look like they are always smiling. They can also turn their heads almost all the way round because of the extra neck vertebrae that they have. Scientists think that sloths move slowly for survival so that their predators, such as hawks and cats – which rely heavily on their eyesight when hunting, would not notice them. The algae that grows on sloths' fur also helps them to avoid predators by letting them blend in with green leaves. Sloths rarely come down from the trees. About once a week, they descend to go to the bathroom, slowly moving about by digging their front claws into the dirt and dragging their bodies. If they are caught by a predator, sloths turn from slugging to slugger, biting fiercely, hissing, slashing with their claws and shrieking.
Do you know that China and Japan have a strong connection with origami? Origami is believed to have originated in China. However, Japan developed the craft. The Japanese named the craft Origami which means paper folding. Hundreds of years ago, when paper was first invented, the Japanese folded it into dolls and flowers for special ceremonies. With the passing of time, the craft has become a popular family pastime in Japan and is even taught in schools today. While origami is a fun activity for children, many adults are also attracted to it. They find paper folding an exciting and relaxing hobby. Using just a piece of paper, it can be folded into cards, gift boxes, ornaments, animal shapes and many other things. All that is needed together with the paper is patience and a little imagination. Like many other crafts, origami can be mastered with some practice. Another attractive feature of origami is that other than the traditional origami paper which is coloured on one side, any type of paper that folds well can also be used. Tissue paper is ideal for delicate models while newspaper can be used for bigger models. In fact, using recycled paper would make an ideal choice when it comes to environmental conservation. On one hand, you are having fun with origami. On the other hand, you are being environmentally friendly. 
Once upon a time, a peasant called Bala lost all his crops in a drought. Penniless, he decided to seek his fortune in another village. Before he set off on his journey, he borrowed a dozen hard-boiled eggs from a neighbour. Five years later, Bala returned to his village riding a fine black horse. Accompanying him was a servant on a camel laden with gold and silver coins. In his hands, Bala had a staff with jewels and big gold rings on his fingers. Straightaway, the neighbour who had given him the dozen eggs on credit knocked on Bala's door, asking for five hundred silver coins in payment of the eggs. Bala refused to pay such a large sum and the neighbour took him to court. On the day of the hearing, the neighbour appeared in court but there was no sign of Bala. The judge waited impatiently for Bala. Suddenly, Bala dashed in, out of breath. At once, the neighbour said, in defence of his demands, "I've asked Bala for payment of five hundred silver coins, because twelve chickens might have hatched from the eggs he borrowed from me. These chickens would have become hens and cockerels. More eggs would have been laid and these too would have hatched." "Perfectly right!" agreed the judge. He became very hostile towards Bala and questioned, "What have you to say for yourself? By the way, why are you late?" "I had a plate of boiled beans in the house and I planted them in the garden to have a good crop next year!" "That is ridiculous!" exclaimed the judge. "Do boiled beans ever grow?" he added. Bala fired back at him, "Do boiled eggs ever hatch into chickens?" And that was how Bala won his case.
Mrs Lim was going to have a baby, so we decided to throw her a surprise party before she welcomed the new-born. We would hold it in classroom P4C as it was the room where many memorable lessons took place with Mrs Lim. We discussed the preparations and everyone put on their thinking caps. I was the first to volunteer to do the decorations as I had many streamers and ribbons I could contribute. Florence suggested the class should bring more food so that it would not run out. Many of us enjoyed listening to David's suggestions, but they were impossible to carry out. On the day of the party, everyone came early to class. I was disappointed by some who came up with brilliant ideas during the discussion but did not do much on the actual day. They looked like they were only there to eat, drink and be merry. I told myself to hold back any comments as they were my classmates. However, there was a slight accident when Ali tripped while carrying the cake. We tried to salvage the cake as we did not want to waste food. For those of us who worked hard for the party, everything we had done was worth it when we saw the surprised expression on Mrs Lim's face. She thanked all of us and said that she appreciated our efforts. I felt that experience is the best teacher as through planning this party, I learnt more about myself and others. This is another memorable lesson learnt in P4C.
Joey sat at the kitchen, reading the morning paper. His grandfather came in but did not pick up the paper to read. Joey knew that Grandfather was illiterate and longed to be able to read one day. One day, Joey saw a sign in the public library. It read: "Do you know someone who doesn't know how to read? We can help. Just call this number." Enthusiastically, Joey told Grandfather about it. Several days later, Grandfather arrived at the library early and met with his teacher. During the first lesson, he was so worried and tense that he could not remember anything his teacher said. A few weeks later, Grandfather was studying when he looked up at Joey and said, "I am too old to learn all of this now." He closed the book in frustration. Joey encouraged Grandfather and offered to help him with his studies. They studied together and worked hard on Grandfather's lessons every day. Joey even took over all the household chores to give his grandfather more time to study. Months later, his grandfather called Joey into his room. "Joey," he said, "I just got a letter from Aunt Helen. Let me read it to you." As Grandfather read, he pronounced each word very slowly and tears formed in his eyes. When he finished reading the letter, Joey was crying too. He was very proud of his grandfather for his achievement.
Tim had a problem. He sometimes had to squint to see things clearly. He tried his best to hide it from everyone. However, his mother spotted him squinting to watch television and took him to see an optician despite his protests. A few days later, Tim collected his new spectacles. He had been instructed to wear his glasses all the time. He frowned and grumbled all the way home. In class, Tim kept his spectacles in his pocket and avoided his friends so no one would notice that he was squinting. Suddenly, he heard his friend, Daniel, wailing, "My marble is missing! My dad gave it to me for my birthday!" Tim and his friends ran over and searched high and low for the marble. Realising how anxious Daniel was, Tim put on his spectacles to help in the search. Everything around him became crystal clear. That was when he saw it! The shiny marble was shimmering in the corner of the room. "I've found it, Daniel!" Tim shouted and handed the marble to Daniel. "Thanks, Tim," said Daniel gratefully. "I never thought we'd find it." He paused and added, "Hey, I didn't know you wore spectacles. They look great!" Tim was surprised and smiled bashfully. As they returned to their seats, two more of his classmates complimented Tim. "Maybe wearing spectacles isn't so bad after all," he thought.
Wandering through a dense forest in southern China, a sun bear comes across a log. He gives it a sniff and then opens his mouth. A nearly ten-inch-long tongue rolls out! Maneuvering the massive tongue under the log, the bear slurps up the tasty insects that crawl beneath it until his belly is full. Sun bears are unique. As their name suggests, they have golden patches of fur on their chests, which resemble a rising sun. While their tongues may be massive, sun bears are actually the smallest bear species. Male sun bears grow to about 1.5m in height and weigh up to 68 kilograms – that's half the size of an adult American black bear. Their average life span is about 25 years. These animals live in wooded areas of Southeast Asia. Strong and agile, sun bears are good at climbing trees. Their sleek, black coat is short to avoid overheating in the tropical weather but it is thick enough to provide protection from rain. They spend a lot of time sleeping within tree canopies and even build beds made of twigs and leaves on branches. Unfortunately, deforestation has resulted in the rapidly decreasing numbers of the sun bear population. Sun bears have a large appetite for insects, leaves, lizards and berries. These sources of food provide a lot of nutrition for the Sun bears. The sun bear's favourite snack, however, is honey – just like Winnie the Pooh. To get it, they rip open beehives with their sharp claws, then use their extra-long tongues to extract the honey inside, often gobbling up bees with the sticky sweet. Luckily, they do not seem bothered by bee stings. 